Advanced Git Resource Example (#301)
mitre/saf-training: src/courses/advanced/05.md

:::

::: code-tabs

@tab inspec.yml
```yaml
name: my_git
title: InSpec Profile
maintainer: The Authors
copyright: The Authors
copyright_email: you@example.com
license: Apache-2.0
summary: An InSpec Compliance Profile
version: 0.1.0
supports:
  platform: os

inputs:
  - name: git_dir
    type: String
    value: /workspaces/saf-training-lab-environment/git_test_target/.git
```

@tab example.rb
```ruby
git_dir = input('git_dir')

# The following branches should exist
describe command("git --git-dir #{git_dir} branch --format='%(refname:short)'").stdout.lines.map(&:strip) do
  it { should include 'main' }
end

describe command("git --git-dir #{git_dir} branch --format='%(refname:short)'").stdout.lines.map(&:strip) do
  it { should include 'testBranch' }
end

# What is the current branch
describe command("git --git-dir #{git_dir} branch --show-current").stdout.strip do

>   it { should match 'main' }

Reviewer: While we're at it, this matcher should be `eq` and not `match`. We're not matching this as a regex at this point and while this technically works we want to reflect a good habit of using the correct matcher for the situation.

Author: done

> This will generate a `git_test` repository which we will use for these examples.

Reviewer 2: Should this be `git_test_target`?

Author: done

Now let's write some tests and confirm that they run. You can put these tests in the `example.rb` file generated in the `controls` folder of your `my_git` InSpec profile. These tests are written using the `command` resource which is provided by InSpec. We will write a `git` resource in this section to improve this test.

> ::: note Input review
> You will need to put the full directory path of the `.git` file from your `git_test_target` repository as the value for the `git_dir` input in your `inspec.yml`. To get the full path of your current location in the terminal, use `pwd`.  The value in the codeblock below should be correct, but it's always good to doublecheck.
> :::

Reviewer 2: I think it would be beneficial to set a generic path in `inspec.yml` and an env-specific path in `inputs.yml` to align with what we teach.

```suggestion
::: note Input review
You will need to declare a `git_dir` input in your `inspec.yml` with a generic value such as `./.git`. You can then put the full directory path to the `.git` folder under your `git_test_target` repository as the value for the `git_dir` input in your `inputs.yml`. To get the full path of your current location in the terminal, use `pwd`.  The value in the code block below should be correct, but it's always good to doublecheck.
:::
```

Author: I don't want the students to have to add the --input-file flag every time that they run the profile.  I'll change up the language to say that we made this an input that is exactly specified for now and ought to be correct for the lab, but if it ain't then you can use the --input flag or an inputfile to overwrite it and also add the bit about a general location.

# encoding: utf-8
# copyright: 2018, The Authors

> git_dir = "/workspaces/saf-training-lab-environment/git_test_target_target/.git"

Author: Added

    end

>     def current_branch

Author: I think both of the implementations for these branch methods are wrong btw.

branches should be something like the following but using inspec.command(thing).stdout instead of directly calling out to the shell and also using the --git-dir flag: 
```ruby
`git branch --format='%(refname:short)'`.lines.map(&:strip)
```

same same but different with current branch:
```ruby
`git branch --show-current`.strip
```

`includes?` is a function on string which is why branches works as it does with the control being `should include 'main'` but in actuality this means that we could potentially be passing even when the list of branches didn't include a branch exactly called `main` - ex. if it were like something `mainline` then it would still pass.  doing it with the alternative implementation above where we convert it into an array makes us use the array version of `includes?` which looks for exact string comparison amongst its members

the current branch implementation is what yall been saying where you examine all possibilities vs filter precisely to what we're looking for.  turns out `git branch` has a flag that makes what we wanna do pretty damn easy lol

Author: yes :)

    end

    def branches
        inspec.command("git --git-dir #{@path} branch --format='%(refname:short)'").stdout.lines.map(&:strip)
    end

    def current_branch
        inspec.command("git --git-dir #{@path} branch --show-current").stdout.strip
    end

end
```

> ::: tip 1337 h4x0rs

Reviewer 3: I think this 'hack code' may be confusing to students

Author: it'll probably be fine :)

if they don't get it, they can ignore it or use google lol

if they do get it, then they'll get a small chuckle
